=head1 NAME

VCS::CMSynergy::Changes - list of changes to VCS::CMSynergy

=cut

Known problems:

- 'make test' on Windows with out-of-the-box CM Synergy installation:
   probably needs to specify -u and -home options for "ccm start"

- traverse_project()
	what about absolute subprojects (with subprojects => 1)

=head1 CHANGES

=head2 Changes in Version 1.32

  The CPAN indexer exposed a problem with extracting module VERSIONs
  from SVN $Revision$ tags (which only shows with Perl 5.10). 
  Otherwise no changes.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.31
 
  Implemented show_reconfigure_properties() Project method.

  On Cygwin, make sure that path names that are passed down to Synergy
  are in native Windows form.

  Added -ui_database_dir to session in test suite (bug 27260).
  This should make the tests run with an out-of-the-box Synergy
  client installation.

  Tested with Synergy 6.5 SP1 and Perl 5.10.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.30

  Ported to CM/Synergy 6.5: the product is now called "Telelogic Synergy".
  Also some changes to the test suite, but it still requires 
  the "tutorial" database from CCM 6.4 before SP1 (upgraded, of course,
  to your Synergy version).

  examples/project_diff in --terse mode will now mark ("~") items
  that have different cvtypes (e.g. directory vs regular file)
  or instances in both projects.

  Small cleanups. It is now checked that certain special keywords,
  e.g. "task_objects", can only be used in query-type methods
  when the result data structure is a hash or an array ref (i.e.
  _not_ a VCS::CMSynergy::Object).

=head2 Changes in Version 1.29

  Implemented get_member_info_hashref() and get_member_info_object() 
  as wrappers for the optional command "get_member_info" (from
  the "PC Integrations" package), cf. README.get_member_info.

  New class VCS::CMSynergy::Project (subclass of VCS::CMSynergy::Object)
  for methods on Synergy projects. All VCS::CMSynergy::Object producing
  methods will automatically return a VCS::CMSynergy::Project if the
  the object's cvtype is "project".

  query_object() subsumes query_object_with_attributes() which 
  is only kept as an alias for backward compatibility.

  object_from_cvid() now takes an optional list of keywords (to prime
  the object's attributes when using :cached_attributes.).

  Implemented object_from_proj_ref().

  More special keywords recognized in query_* (and related) methods:
  "cr_objects", "baseline_project", "baseline_object". These are similar
  to "task_objects" (which splits the list of tasks returned from 
  Synergy's pseudo attribute %task and objectifies the elements)
  for the pseudo attributes %change_request, %baseline, %in_baseline.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.28

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: set_attribute() doesn't fail anymore when
  you try to change the value of an inherited attribute. Instead, it
  silently converts the inherited attribute to a local attribute
  (using "ccm attribute -create -force ...").
  This also works when using :tied_objects and assigning to
  $obj->{attribute_name}.

  Implemented relations_hashref(), relations_object(), wrappers
  for "ccm relate -show" similar to the query_*() family.

  Implemented V::C::Object methods recursive_is_member_of(), 
  hierarchy_project_members().

  Add option "mark_projects" to project_tree(): list projects instead
  of their top level directories.

  Add special handling of CM Synergy release objects 
  (i.e. of cvtype "relasedef") to the query_*() functions because they
  also have a non-standard objectname method.

  Don't cache the results of "ccm attr -la" in VCS::CMsynergy::Object anymore 
  because it bloated V::C::Os for little gain.

  Convert VCS::CMSynergy::Object to use to Class::Accessor::Fast.

  Convert tests to use Test::Deep.

  Use Module::Install to bundle Test::* modules i(and others)
  required for `make test' only. Change Makefile.PL accordingsly, add
  MANIFEST.SKIP and generate MANIFEST and META.yml.

  Rewrote examples/project_diff.

  Finally got rid of the (undocumented) $OneArgFoo misfeature (and
  corresponding first parameter of _ccm()). 

=head2 Changes in Version 1.27

  Fixed a bug where empty string attributes could be returned 
  as undef in query_*() (depending on the order of %keywords 
  in the actual query). Reason was the careless use of split()
  without a limit (which strips trailing empty fields by default).

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: Make attribute values returned from 
  the query_*() family consistent with the return value of get_attribute()
  w.r.t. a trailing newline: If the "real" attribute value is "foo\nbar\n"
  then that's what query_hashref() would have returned. But get_attribute()
  would have returned "foo\nbar" (i.e. stripped the trailing newline).
  The reason is that get_attribute() uses "ccm attr -show" and
  Synergy always appends a newline to the output of a command unless
  one is already there. So there's no way of telling whether the "real"
  value was "foo\nbar" or "foo\nbar\n". Therefore ccm() has always stripped
  a trailing newline from the command's stdout. Now we return "foo\nbar"
  in both cases.

  Users.pm: Always try to preserve the order of a user's roles.
  If an insertion preserving order tied hash class (e.g. Tie::IxHash)
  is available, also preserve the order of user lines.

  Implemented folder_object() (similar to task_object()).

  Make cat_object() work when destination is a filehandle or glob ref
  (now that my fix has found its way into IPC::Run3).

  Implement V::C::Object methods is_RELATION_of and has_RELATION
  (via AUTOLOAD): $obj->is_RELATION_of is short for

    $obj->ccm->query_object("is_RELATION_of('$obj')")

  Add README.datetime about problems with CM Synergy when trying
  to obtain predictable and consistent datetime values.

  Add tests for POD and POD coverage and all test failures.

  Drop README.IPC-Run3 as behaviour with fork is fixed with IPC::Run3 0.032.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.26

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: get_attribute() doesn't fail any more if the
  attribute doesn't exist for the given object, it returns "undef"
  instead.  This is more consistent with the behaviour of "ccm query
  -f %foo ..."  when some returned object doesn't have attribute "foo":
  "ccm query -f %foo ..."  puts "<void>" into the corresponding column
  which all query_*() methods will translate to "undef". It also fits
  better with the object-as-hash-of-its-attributes metapher when using
  :tied_objects.

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: The initial attribute value is now mandatory
  (i.e. must be defined) for create_attribute().

  Added README.IPC-Run3 about problems when scripts using VCS::CMSynergy
  do fork() and call VCS::CMSynergy methods both from parent and child.

  Make query_count() accept shortcut queries like the rest of query_*.

  Fix quoting of string values in shortcut queries: use double quotes
  if the string contains single quotes. Fix the regex used to
  sanitize the query string.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.25 (not released)

  The method to set an attribute to an empty string value used by 
  set_attribute() doesn't work on Windows (and I don't know any that works),
  so error out in this case.

  Fixed a bug where multi-line valued properties would be returned
  as undef by property().

  Dont stop session in VCS::CMSynergy::DESTROY if the current process
  is not the one that created the VCS::CMSynergy object (i.e. after a fork,
  stop session only in the parent, never in the child).

=head2 Changes in Version 1.24

  Fix for bug reported by Robert Kirchner:
  If a session (i.e. VCS::CMSynergy object) is implicitly DESTROYed
  at program termination the script always exits with status 0,
  regardless of any explicit status set with exit(). 
  This was caused by an unlocalized $? in VCS::CMSynergy::Client::exec().

=head2 Changes in Version 1.23 (not released)

  Implemented query_count().

  Implemented pseudo keyword "task_objects" (query_* and history_* methods).

  The query string in query_*() methods may now contain newlines
  to improve legibility. These will be replaced by blanks in _query().

  Make set_attribute() work for empty string values.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.22

  Fix breakage on Cygwin introduced in 1.20 - UseCoprocess
  still doesn't work though.

  Restore VCS::CMSynergy::Helper.pm which was accidentally mangled in 1.20.

  Change documentation and usage of VCS::CMSynergy::Helper::GetOptions()
  to use the returned value as a hash.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.20

  WARNING: This version is known NOT to work on Cygwin 
  (due to CRLF vs LF issues).

  IPC::Run3 is now a requisite module.

  Dropped support for CM Synergy 4.5.

  Implemented dcm_database_id(), dcm_delimiter(), dcm_enabled(), 
  default_project_instance() and VCS::CMSynergy::Object::exists().

  Implemented "unique" VCS::CMSynergy::Objects when using :cached_attributes.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.19 (not released)

  Implemented project_tree(), made examples/project_diff use it.

  Replaced IPC::Open3 with IPC::Run3 in VCS::CMSynergy::Client::exec().

  Implemented object_from_cvid(), documentet object_other_version().

  Implemented VCS::CMSynergy::Object::copy_attribute().

  Reinstated types() because of popular demand (read the ACcent sources
  if you really want to know what exactly is returned by "ccm show -types").
  Added migrate_auto_rules().

=head2 Changes in Version 1.18

  Removed types() - not useful.
  Removed proj_vers(), use displayname() instead.

  Added attribute caching (optional feature, "use VCS::CMSynergy ':cached_attributes'").
  Added query_object_with_attributes() and "attributes" option 
  for traverse_project() that prime object caches with results from query.

  Documented VCS::CMSynergy::Client; reorganized PODs.

  Added example script project_tree (thanks to Anne Feldmeier
  for the simplified itree building algorithm).

=head2 Changes in Version 1.17 (not released)

  Added example script project_diff.

  Fixed bug (typo) in update_users.pm spotted by Jürgen Schorer.

  Fixed t/07workarea.t so that it doesn't assume that the temporary
  project work area path is of the form tempdir/name-version, 
  use attribute wa_path instead.

  Implemented `postprocess' callback for traverse_project().

  Trace information for CM commands now includes the elpased time to
  execute the command. Layout of trace information changed for debug
  levels >= 8.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.16

  BIG FAT WARNING: VERSION 1.5 INTRODUCED AN INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE 
  w.r.t. to VCS::CMSynergy class methods (e.g. ps() or databases()), see below.

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: The hash returned by finduse() and the "finduse" 
  keyword for query_arrayref()/query_hashref() no longer has keys of the
  form "project-version". The keys are now the full objectnames of the
  projects (regardless which form is returned by CM Synergy). This was
  necessary sincd CM Synergy 6.3 allows for projects with instance
  other than '1'.

  Implemented traverse_project() (modelled on File::Find).

  Hacked up script examples/grep_attr: greps attribute values
  for a list of objects (optionally determined by a query).

  Documented the fact that query_arrayref() and query_hashref() will
  rewrite values for keyword "objectname" that CM Synergy returns
  in deprecated fullname form.

  Tested on CM Synergy 6.3 SP1 (some tests needed adjustments).

=head2 Changes in Version 1.15 (not released)

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: VCS::CMSynergy class methods are now
  implemented differently and should not expect to use the value 
  of $ENV{CCM_HOME} current at the time the method is called.
  Code that doesn't manipulate $ENV{CCM_HOME} is unaffected,
  but the following idiom (often seen in administrator scripts
  in an environment with several CM Synergy installations) 
  WILL NOT WORK ANYMORE:
 
    # run "ccm ps" on all our installations
    use VCS::CMSynergy;
    ...
    foreach my $ccm_home (qw(/usr/local/ccm51 /usr/local/ccm62))
    {
	local $ENV{CCM_HOME} = $ccm_home;
	my $ps = VCS::CMSynergy->ps(...);
	...
    }

  That's because the very first invocation of any VCS::CMSynergy
  (or VCS::CMSynergy::Client) class method "captures" the value
  of $ENV{CCM_HOME} at that time. This value is then used for all
  class method invocations.  Hence in the above example,
  you will run "ccm ps" twice with CCM_HOME=/usr/local/ccm51.

  The correct way to rewrite the example is to make the setting of
  CCM_HOME explicit by introducing a VCS::CMSynergy::Client object:

    use VCS::CMSynergy;
    use VCS::CMSynergy::Client;
    ...
    foreach my $ccm_home (qw(/usr/local/ccm51 /usr/local/ccm62))
    {
	my $installation = VCS::CMSynergy::Client->new(CCM_HOME => $ccm_home);
	my $ps = $installation->ps(...);
	...
    }


  Split out VCS::CMSynergy class methods (e.g. ps()) into their own class,
  VCS::CMSynergy::Client. Basically, a V::C::Client object encapsulates 
  a particular setting of CCM_HOME. Invoking these methods as class
  methods (either on VCS::CMSynergy or VCS::CMSynergy::Client) still works,
  but they are silently redirected to a "default" V::C::Client object.
  This object is instantiated the first time it is needed and gets the
  value of CCM_HOME valid in %ENV at that time. If you want to call
  V::C::Client methods with different values of CCM_HOME in the
  same program, you must explicitly instantiate different V::C::Client objects
  and call the methods via these objects. In fact, the motivation for
  this surgery were too many administrative programs that wanted to operate
  on several installations in one invocation and had to resort to ugly
  switcheroo of $ENV{CCM_HOME} to do that.

  Optional usage of Memoize has been dropped.

  Documented former private methods ccm_with_option() 
  and ccm_with_text_editor().

=head2 Changes in Version 1.14

  Implemented tied hash interface for VCS::CMSynergy::Object.
  Now you can get/set attributes by treating an V::C::Object like a hash.
  Since this requires every V::C::Object to hold a reference to the sesssion,
  this is only available if Scalar::Util is detected at runtime (so we
  can weaken the referemce).

=head2 Changes in Version 1.13 (not released)

  Implemented get_releases()/set_releases() for manipulating the release table.
  Implement property().

  Fixed 'ye olde text_editor trick on Windows (checked on NT 4.0 and XP):
  CM Synergy seems unable to execute "shell" builtins (like "copy"),
  use "xcopy" instead.

  Made VCS::CMSynergy work on cygwin (even UseCoprocess works).
  This requires Filesys::CygwinPaths to translate Cygwin path names 
  (e.g. as returned by File::Temp::tempfile()) to Windows path names.

  Changed record/field separators (used internally by query/finduse/history)
  from \cD/\cG to \cA/\cD, but someone will probably succeed in
  entering these into some attribute. Anyway, avoid \x1C-\x1E as
  they are used by Change Synergy in some attribute of "problem".

  Added a hint on the usage of new(ui_database_dir => ...).
  Merge pod entries for query_arrayref/query_hashref and 
  history_arrayref/history_hashref.

  Fixed brown paper bag errors in set_attribute (wrong usage check)
  and set_error (handling of HandleError).

=head2 Changes in Version 1.12

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: attribute() has been replaced by two methods 
  get_attribute() and set_attribute().
  attributes() has been renamed to list_attributes().

  Move VCS::CMSynergy hash keys CCM_HOME, CCM_ADDR and CCM_INI_FILE
  into sub hash env. Change ccmexec to pass it a hash ref with keys/values
  to temporarily add to %ENV instead of passing CCM_HOME.
  Factor ccm() into _ccm() (does all the work except error handling) and
  make ccm() a simple wrapper for it. Get rid of IgnoreError and
  use _ccm for all "internal" calls.
  Document "HandleError" and set_errror().
  Pod: change all method "=item"s to "=head2"; the man page looks slightly
  worse, but the HTML rendering is much better.
  CMSynergy/users.pl: renamed to CMSynergy/update_users.pm.
  Implemented create_attribute(), delete_attribute(), and copy_attribute().

=head2 Changes in Version 1.10

  Document types of options for new().
  Document option `KeepSession' for new().
  Mention correct way to explicity stop a session.
  Implement ccm_addr().
  Make database() lazy.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.09 (not released)

  Make it work for ancient Continuus 4.5 (fixes #1681):
    - `ccm ps -rfc_address ADDR' doesn't find the process if host part of ADDR
       is given as name (instead of an IP address); esp. this breaks
       `ccm ps -rfc_address $ccm->{CCM_ADDR}' - used in new()
    - different error messages from `ccm finduse' if object is not in use
    - adjust test cases
  Correctly handle (Raise|Print|Handle)Error when ps() in new() fails.
  Add 'remote_client => 1' to options for new() (causes `-rc' for `ccm start').

=head2 Changes in Version 1.08

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: The pseudo keyword "finduse" in query_arrayref()
    and query_hashref() does not return a list of project references
    any more. It now returns a hash which maps proj_vers to relative_path. 
    Similarly, the rows returned by finduse() have changed from
    	[ $description, @project_references ]
    to
    	[ $description, \%usage_map ].

  Converted findpath() to use new finduse(), adjusted t/04finduse.t.
  Convert tests to use Test::More.
  Makefile.PL: don't require Memoize anymore, just recommend it.
  Windows: will sleep(2) _after_ "ccm stop" and _before_ unlinking 
    files_to_unlink (because they may still be "busy" - probably "ccm stop"
    returns _before_ CM Synergy really has ceased operation).
  Fix problem with set_error() that's probably a perl bug 
    (at least for 5.6.1, fixed in 5.8.1, cf #9998, #9739 on rt.perl.org):

      sub foo
      {
	 my @x = (2, 1, 0);	# last elem must be false
	 return @x if wantarray and @x;
	 print "OOPS\n";
      }
      my @foo = foo;

    This will print "OOPS". Somehow wantarray seems to force list context
    onto the right-hand side of "and" - @x will thus evaluate to its
    last element.

=head2 Changes in Version 1.07

  INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE: The 3-arg form of attribute() does not return
    the old value any more.

  Document 3-arg form of attribute().
  When setting attributes, cope with arbitrary types by looking
    up the super_type recursively until one of the well known types 
    (for which we "just know" whether they need the "text_editor"
    trick )is found.
  Kludge for annoying `Security violation...' warning on Windows
    (thanks to Peter Kreuz for the explanation what's goin' on).
  Rewritten output parsing for history_*().
  Fix typo in types().
  Add error() and ccm_command() calss/instance methods, prefer
    them in docs over explicit $ccm->{error} or $VCS::CMSynergy::error.
  Add "ui_database_dir" option to new().
 
=head2 Version 1.05

  The Great Renaming: s/CMSyngery/VCS::CMSynergy/g.
  First version uploaded to CPAN.

=head2 Version 1.04

  Split out CMSynergy::Users.pm.
  Fix bug with multi-line valued attributes in query_* functions.
  Rewritten output parsing for query_*() and finduse().
  Make "ccm->set('foo', undef) " execute "ccm unset foo".
  Fix bug reported by Jürgen Schorer: CCM_HOME not passed down to "ccm start".
  Rewritten test cases.
  Make tests work under NT and Cygwin.
  Split out (and currently don't distribute) CMSynergy::Traversal.pm.

=head2 Version 1.02

  Fill $VERSION from CM Synergy version.
  Add LICENSE in preparation for CPAN upload.

=head2 Version 1.01

  Fix exit code of ccm() when using coprocess.

=head2 Version 1.00

  "ccm ps" can't be called interactively.
  Make set_error callable as class method.
  Convenience function: CMObject::proj_vers.

=head2 Version 0.98

  Downgrade required Perl version  to 5.6.0 (untested).
  Use Memoize.pm if available, otherwise memoization is a no-op.

=head2 Version 0.97

  Fix problems when outer SIGCHLD handler is present.
